Now, we often talk about endurance, but here's a question, is endurance unique to Jehovah's
people?
No.
Everybody has to endure things.
We think people have to endure death and sickness and disasters and violence and pandemics,
food shortages, and much more.
Why even being persecuted for our faith does not set us apart from other people in the
world.
Think about it.
Others have to deal with persecution for their religion, their ethnic background, even
the color of their skin.
Yes, due to imperfection and this wicked world we live in, everybody has to endure something.
But Jesus highlighted, though, something that sets our endurance apart from others, and
it's in our text for today.
And if I had you to turn to Luke chapter 8 and verse 15, let's read it again.
Luke 8, 15, it says, as for that on the fine soil, these are the ones who after hearing
the word with a fine and good heart, retain it and bear fruit with endurance.
Do you notice what separates us apart from others in the world?
Us as an organization.
See, we hear the word of God, we retain it, we endure, but we bear fruit while we endure.
Now what is the fruitage we bear while we are enduring?
Well, the context of this scripture is talking about, and as our comments mention, talking
about preaching, preaching the kingdom message, and we know our brothers and sisters do that
no matter what they're going through.
They continue telling others the good news about the kingdom and about Jehovah.
What's the other fruitage that we bear?
Well, look at Colossians chapter 1 and verse 10.
Colossians chapter 1 and verse 10 says, so as to walk worthily of Jehovah in order to please
him fully as you go on bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the accurate knowledge
of God.
Yes, even while going through very difficult times, terrible times, what do our brothers
and sisters do?
Well, they continue to do every good work.
They look to see it like in help others, support the kingdom, support the organization, support
their brothers and sisters.
Then there's also Galatians 5, 22 and 23.
That reminds us that no matter what it is that we're going through, we continue to cultivate
the fruitage of God's spirit, which includes those beautiful qualities of love, joy, peace,
patience, kindness, goodness, faith, maleness, and self-control.
See, we endure, but we continue to bear these beautiful qualities.
And really, that's one of the things that sets Jehovah's organization as a people apart
from the rest of the world, not just endurance, but bearing fruit while enduring.
And isn't it true that that's one of the things that makes us so proud to be part of
this organization?
Because we look around and we see our brothers and sisters doing that.
It makes us so proud of them, so proud of each other.
Now as we know, our brothers in Russia are enduring religious persecution yet they keep
on bearing fruit.
Here's a few experiences.
One brother who we will call Ivan was, has been in five different prison cells in the
detention center where he is at at the time of his writing.
And his prayers include asking Jehovah to give him the opportunity to witness on every
occasion.
So what does he do?
He witnesses on every occasion.
In one transfer, the prison official sent Ivan to a special section that had very harsh
conditions.
It was a section that is set aside for especially dangerous criminals.
And they put Ivan in a cell with a man accused of terrorism.
And what Ivan do immediately began to witness to him.
Ivan says that his cellmate turned out to be very interested in the Bible.
They often spoke about the Bible.
Ivan has now been transferred to another cell and is witnessing to those inmates.
But before leaving, he arranged for some brothers to begin corresponding with this man.
And Ivan is hoping that this man continues to correspond and continue studying the Bible.
A sister will call Nadia, was told about the possibility that her prison sentence might
be reduced to house arrest.
Well, Nadia was not as excited as one would naturally imagine.
Why?
Well, it's because Nadia felt that she still had much work to do there in prison.
See, over the six months that she was there, the prison officials had transferred or had
put 22 different women in her cell with her, and Nadia witnessed all of them.
She conducted Bible studies with five of them.
Nadia does not see an urgent need to leave the prison quite yet.
So what's the difference between Nadia and Ivan and their fellow inmates?
They're all enduring prison.
But Ivan and Nadia are bearing fruit while they're enduring.
They're witnessing to others.
They're doing good works.
They're maintaining their joy and other aspects of the fruit of God's spirit.
And of course, Jehovah's spirit is helping them to endure.
Our brothers and sisters there in Russia, during the search of his home, one brother while
they were searching his home became very, very anxious.
He prayed to Jehovah, he says, Jehovah, please, I do not know what to do.
Please help me know what to do.
Right then, the investigator who was leading the investigation was looking at our brother's
refrigerator, and he read the words expressively and loudly that was on a magnet on his refrigerator.
Do not be anxious for I am your God.
The brother immediately recognized this was an answer to his prayer.
Others of our brothers and sisters are dealing with terrible violence and adversities,
but they continue bearing fruit.
Yamileh is a 44-year-old sister in Venezuela.
She has two daughters, 117 years old, 120 years old, where she lives has become a very, very
dangerous place.
Those who can move away do.
And Yamileh says it's very hard to keep a positive attitude.
She worries about the safety of her two daughters.
Yamileh tells of seeing people held at gunpoint while their little children look
on of witnessing executions on the street, being caught in gun battles during, while she's
in the ministry, and she says most troubling is hearing the desperate screams at night
of people pleading for their life.
She says some mornings after particularly terrifying nights, she feels helpless and frightened
to the point where she can't even bear the thought of going out of the house, going out
into the ministry.
But what does she do?
She says, I give myself a good talking to.
I say, Yamileh, you're a regular pioneer, you have to go out and preach the good news.
So she says she goes out and she's always encouraged for doing so.
Recently, Yamileh called on a woman who cried over and over again about the terrible things
that were taking place.
Yamileh says that as I shared the kingdom message with her, I thought, thank you, Jehovah.
This would be me if I did not know you.
Abner and Isomar are also a young couple, they're a young couple also from Venezuela.
But due to the crisis at home, they moved to Peru nearly two years ago.
Now their lives became much more difficult due to the coronavirus pandemic and the national
lockdown.
And though they were very careful, they took many precautions, both of them fell ill and
were diagnosed with COVID-19.
Now they mentioned that they had been diagnosed with COVID-19 only to their families in Venezuela
and to Jehovah in prayer.
Just one hour later, a local sister knocked on their door and left the bag of food and
an encouraging card for them.
Not even a half an hour later, after that, another sister brought a bag of food and a small
amount of money for them.
When they had somewhat recovered, they realized that someone had stolen money from their bank
account.
And it was the money that they had set aside for a theocratic purpose.
Again, they told Jehovah in prayer, but this time they told nobody else.
Later that same day, they received money from a sister in the exact amount that they lost.
And despite the many obstacles that they're going through, they continue to put the kingdom
first.
In addition to sending money home to their families in Venezuela, they continue as regular
pioneers.
They are assisting the Peru branch with the Peruvian sign language work.
What's the point?
The point is that our brothers and sisters are enduring very, very difficult times all
around the world.
And yet what separates them, what separates us from the rest of mankind who are enduring
similar trials?
We bear fruit with endurance.
And isn't it true?
We could stay here all day and here experience after experience of our brothers and sisters
around the world, including those of you of this family, experiences that you're having
bearing fruit while enduring.